Cost of living in Lisbon (2025)


Cost of food in Lisbon

One of the bigger monthly expenses you’ll have outside of your rent is your food bill. Lisbon has a variety of options in terms of groceries and restaurants, so your food budget will vary depending on where you go. Groceries in Lisbon will typically cost between €250 to €400 per month. Shopping in places like Aldi, Continente or Lidl will help keep your grocery budget down.


Cost of transport in Lisbon

Like many capital cities, the streets of Lisbon aren't very car-friendly. The best way to get around Lisbon is by using the incredible public transportation system in place across the city. If you plan to travel around Lisbon a lot using public transport, it’s best to get a monthly subscription with a Navegante card.

The price of the subscription depends on the area you live. If you think you’ll mainly be travelling around Lisbon, Amadora and Odivelas— the municipal subscription, which costs €30 per month, is best for you. If you’re going to be moving around the Lisbon metropolitan area, the metropolitan subscription, which costs €40 per month, is your best bet.

You can also get a pay as you go subscription and top up as you go, each journey will then cost €1.61.

Taxis in Lisbon are also pretty cheap with a base rate of €3.25 and an extra €0.47 per km. If you need to move in a hurry and a nearby scooter or bike rental is the best option, it usually costs less than €5 per journey.



Average rent in Lisbon

Your biggest living expense in Lisbon will certainly be the cost of your rent. The average cost of rent in Lisbon hit a peak during 2023, but has been decreasing ever since. The amount you pay in rent while living in Lisbon will vary a lot depending on which Lisbon neighbourhood you decide to live in and the type of accommodation you go for.

Average monthly rent for a Private room	is €490.
Average monthly rent for a Studio is €1,056.
Average monthly rent for a Apartment is €1,750.