Master Degree Program in Clinical Research Management

Developed in partnership with NOVA IMS, NOVA Medical School (NMS|FCM), National School of Public Health (ENSP-NOVA) and Universidade de Aveiro (UA), the Master degree Program in Clinical Research Management aims to train highly qualified human resources to enable clinical research in health care facilities, universities, academic centers, biobanks, pharmaceutical, and healthcare technology companies, clinical research organizations, and others. The training and professionalization of the structures and teams that support Clinical Research improve the quality and increase the performance and competitiveness of Research Teams. This is the goal in which MEGIC focuses its strategy.
This program includes an internship into a real working environment, in order to allow the development of the competencies defined for this study cycle.
The 7th edition (2024/2025) will be held in Lisbon at Faculdade Ciências Médicas | Nova Medical School. The written contents will all be available in the English language. The interaction with the students will be done in the Portuguese language.


NOVA IMS' Program Coordinator

Name: Pedro Simões Coelho
Title: Full Professor
Email: psc@novaims.unl.pt



Length

The program lasts 4 semesters. The classes (1st, 2nd and 3rd semesters of the program) will start in September 2022, running on Thursday and Fridays (9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.).



The 5th edition (2022/2023) will be held in Lisbon at Faculdade Ciências Médicas | Nova Medical School.


Admissions and fees

The Admissions' Jury Panel is looking for excellent students who have the potential to become good technical staff and excellent managers. Qualities such as maturity, determination and motivation, both in the academic path as well in a professional career, are some of the attributes that the Jury Panel is looking for.

Tuition fee

The tuition fee is:
  - Portuguese Students: €2.750/year;
  - International Students: €5.500/year.


Selection criteria

The selection process is based on the analysis of academic, scientific and professional curriculum of the candidate. An interview and/or written test may be conducted as a complementary criterion.

See the noticehere.


How to apply

To complete the application, the applicant must register, fill the form inwww.nms.unl.pt(Education > Masters > Master in Clinical Research Management >Application guide> 1. Link 'Efetuar registo').


Application fee

The fee of the application is €51. The application can only be considered after the payment of the application fee, within the stipulated period.